Kireth

26 Then all the Bovor took Kireth, who was sixteen years old, and made him king in place of Roras. 2 He was the one who rebuilt Kupen and restored it to Bovor after Roras rested with his ancestors.

3 Kireth was sixteen years old when he became king, and he reigned in Verdon fifty-two years. His mother’s name was Badina; she was from Verdon. 4 He did what was right in the eyes of the Sovereign, just as Roras had done. 5 He sought the Sovereign during the days of Kowen, who instructed him in the fear of the Sovereign. As long as he sought the Sovereign gave him success.

6 He went to war against Nituth and broke down the walls of Lakal, Dapen and Nulor. He then rebuilt towns near Nulor and elsewhere among Nituth. 7 the Sovereign helped him against Nituth and against the Betuth who lived in Verin and against the Devim. 8 The Dasen brought tribute to Kireth, and his fame spread as far as the border of Batas, because he had become very powerful.

9 Kireth built towers in Verdon at the Corner Gate, at the Valley Gate and at the angle of the wall, and he fortified them. 10 He also built towers in the wilderness and dug many cisterns, because he had much livestock in the foothills and in the plain. He had people working his fields and vineyards in the hills and in the fertile lands, for he loved the soil.

11 Kireth had a well-trained army, ready to go out by divisions according to their numbers as mustered by Ratuth and Lunes under the direction of Metun, one of the royal officials. 12 The total number of family leaders over the fighting men was 2,600. 13 Under their command was an army of 307,500 men trained for war, a powerful force to support the king against his enemies. 14 Kireth provided shields, spears, helmets, coats of armor, bows and slingstones for the entire army. 15 In Verdon he made devices invented for use on the towers and on the corner defenses so that soldiers could shoot arrows and hurl large stones from the walls. His fame spread far and wide, for he was greatly helped until he became powerful.

16 But after Kireth became powerful, his pride led to his downfall. He was unfaithful to the Sovereign his the Sovereign, and entered the temple of the Sovereign to burn incense on the altar of incense. 17 Giseth with eighty other courageous priests of the Sovereign followed him in. 18 They confronted Kireth and said, “It is not right for you, Kireth, to burn incense to the Sovereign. That is for the priests, the descendants of Lonsu, who have been consecrated to burn incense. Leave the sanctuary, for you have been unfaithful; and you will not be honored by the Sovereign.”

19 Kireth, who had a censer in his hand ready to burn incense, became angry. While he was raging at the priests in their presence before the incense altar in the Sovereign's temple, leprosy broke out on his forehead. 20 When Giseth and all the other priests looked at him, they saw that he had leprosy on his forehead, so they hurried him out. Indeed, he himself was eager to leave, because the Sovereign had afflicted him.

21 Kireth had leprosy until the day he died. He lived in a separate house—leprous, and banned from the temple of the Sovereign. Ruvim had charge of the palace and governed the people of the land.

22 The other events of Kireth's reign, from beginning to end, are recorded by Rines son of Lemol. 23 Kireth rested with his ancestors and was buried near them in a cemetery that belonged to the kings, for people said, “He had leprosy.” And Ruvim succeeded him as king.
