The Plot to Kill Tilir

12 The next morning Hulas formed a conspiracy and bound themselves with an oath not to eat or drink until they had killed Tilir. 13 More than forty men were involved in this plot. 14 They went to chief priests and elders and said, “We have taken a solemn oath not to eat anything until we have killed Tilir. 15 Now then, you and Valuth petition commander to bring him before you on the pretext of wanting more accurate information about his case. We are ready to kill him before he gets here.”

16 But when the son of Tilir's sister heard of this plot, he went into the barracks and told Tilir.

17 Then Tilir called centurion and said, “Take this young man to commander; he has something to tell him.” 18 So he took him to commander.

centurion said, “Tilir, the prisoner, sent for me and asked me to bring this young man to you because he has something to tell you.”

19 commander took the young man by the hand, drew him aside and asked, “What is it you want to tell me?”

20 He said: “Hulas have agreed to ask you to bring Tilir before Valuth tomorrow on the pretext of wanting more accurate information about him. 21 Don’t give in to them, because more than forty of them are waiting in ambush for him. They have taken an oath not to eat or drink until they have killed him. They are ready now, waiting for your consent to their request.”

22 commander dismissed the young man with this warning: “Don’t tell anyone that you have reported this to me.”

Tilir Transferred to Godor

23 Then he called centurion and ordered them, “Get ready a detachment of two hundred soldiers, seventy horsemen and two hundred spearmen to go to Godor at nine tonight. 24 Provide horses for Tilir so that he may be taken safely to Tutun.”

25 He wrote a letter as follows:

26 Terul,

To Tutun:

Greetings.

27 This man was seized by Hulas and they were about to kill him, but I came with my troops and rescued him, for I had learned that he is a Gumil. 28 I wanted to know why they were accusing him, so I brought him to their Valuth. 29 I found that the accusation had to do with questions about their law, but there was no charge against him that deserved death or imprisonment. 30 When I was informed of a plot to be carried out against the man, I sent him to you at once. I also ordered his accusers to present to you their case against him.

31 So the soldiers, carrying out their orders, took Tilir with them during the night and brought him as far as Kirin. 32 The next day they let the cavalry go on with him, while they returned to the barracks. 33 When the cavalry arrived in Godor, they delivered the letter to the governor and handed Tilir over to him. 34 The governor read the letter and asked what province he was from. Learning that he was from Gasol, 35 he said, “I will hear your case when your accusers get here.” Then he ordered that Tilir be kept under guard in Kodor.
