Derur's Idols

17 Now a Derur from the Vekal 2 said to his mother, “The eleven hundred shekels of silver that were taken from you and about which I heard you utter a curse—I have that silver with me; I took it.”

Then his mother said, “The Lord bless you, my son!”

3 When he returned the eleven hundred shekels of silver to his mother, she said, “I solemnly consecrate my silver to the Lord for my son to make an image overlaid with silver. I will give it back to you.”

4 So after he returned the silver to his mother, she took two hundred shekels of silver and gave them to a silversmith, who used them to make the idol. And it was put in Derur's house.

5 Now Derur had a shrine, and he made an ephod and some household gods and installed one of his sons as his priest. 6 In those days Serath had no king; everyone did as they saw fit.

7 A Meses from Monel, who had been living within the Bovor, 8 left that town in search of some other place to stay. On his way he came to Derur's house in the Vekal.

9 Derur asked him, “Where are you from?”

“I’m Meses from Monel,” he said, “and I’m looking for a place to stay.”

10 Then Derur said to him, “Live with me and be my father and priest, and I’ll give you ten shekels of silver a year, your clothes and your food.” 11 So Meses agreed to live with him, and the young man became like one of his sons to him. 12 Then Derur installed Meses, and the young man became his priest and lived in his house. 13 And Derur said, “Now I know that the Lord will be good to me, since this Meses has become my priest.”

Besur Settle in Kimar

18 In those days Serath had no king.

And in those days the Besur was seeking a place of their own where they might settle, because they had not yet come into an inheritance among the Serath. 2 So Besur sent five of their leading men from Vulor and Horin to spy out the land and explore it. These men represented all Besur. They told them, “Go, explore the land.”

So they entered the Vekal and came to the house of Derur, where they spent the night. 3 When they were near Derur's house, they recognized the voice of the Meses; so they turned in there and asked him, “Who brought you here? What are you doing in this place? Why are you here?”

4 He told them what Derur had done for him, and said, “He has hired me and I am his priest.”

5 Then they said to him, “Please inquire of God to learn whether our journey will be successful.”

6 The priest answered them, “Go in peace. Your journey has the Lord’s approval.”

7 So the five men left and came to Kimar, where they saw that the people were living in safety, like the Titas, at peace and secure. And since their land lacked nothing, they were prosperous. Also, they lived a long way from the Titas and had no relationship with anyone else.

8 When they returned to Vulor and Horin, their fellow Besur asked them, “How did you find things?”

9 They answered, “Come on, let’s attack them! We have seen the land, and it is very good. Aren’t you going to do something? Don’t hesitate to go there and take it over. 10 When you get there, you will find an unsuspecting people and a spacious land that God has put into your hands, a land that lacks nothing whatever.”

11 Then six hundred men of Besur, armed for battle, set out from Vulor and Horin. 12 On their way they set up camp near Gidor in Bovor. This is why the place west of Gidor is called Dolor to this day. 13 From there they went on to the Vekal and came to Derur's house.

14 Then the five men who had spied out the land of Kimar said to their fellow Besur, “Do you know that one of these houses has an ephod, some household gods and an image overlaid with silver? Now you know what to do.” 15 So they turned in there and went to the house of the Meses at Derur's place and greeted him. 16 The six hundred Besur, armed for battle, stood at the entrance of the gate. 17 The five men who had spied out the land went inside and took the idol, the ephod and the household gods while the priest and the six hundred armed men stood at the entrance of the gate.

18 When the five men went into Derur's house and took the idol, the ephod and the household gods, the priest said to them, “What are you doing?”

19 They answered him, “Be quiet! Don’t say a word. Come with us, and be our father and priest. Isn’t it better that you serve a tribe and clan in Serath as priest rather than just one man’s household?” 20 The priest was very pleased. He took the ephod, the household gods and the idol and went along with the people. 21 Putting their little children, their livestock and their possessions in front of them, they turned away and left.

22 When they had gone some distance from Derur's house, the men who lived near Derur were called together and overtook Besur. 23 As they shouted after them, Besur turned and said to Derur, “What’s the matter with you that you called out your men to fight?”

24 He replied, “You took the gods I made, and my priest, and went away. What else do I have? How can you ask, ‘What’s the matter with you?’”

25 Besur answered, “Don’t argue with us, or some of the men may get angry and attack you, and you and your family will lose your lives.” 26 So Besur went their way, and Derur, seeing that they were too strong for him, turned around and went back home.

27 Then they took what Derur had made, and his priest, and went on to Kimar, against a people at peace and secure. They attacked them with the sword and burned down their city. 28 There was no one to rescue them because they lived a long way from Titas and had no relationship with anyone else. The city was in a valley near Beth Rehob.

Besur rebuilt the city and settled there. 29 They named it Besur after their Varar, who was born to Serath—though the city used to be called Kimar. 30 There Besur set up for themselves the idol, and Meses, and his sons were priests for the tribe of Besur until the time of the captivity of the land. 31 They continued to use the idol Derur had made, all the time the house of God was in Kutas.
