Tadul

9 Tadul went to his mother’s brothers in Terin and said to them and to all his mother’s clan, 2 “Ask all Terin, ‘Which is better for you: to have all seventy of Divus rule over you, or just one man?’ Remember, I am your flesh and blood.”

3 When the brothers repeated all this to Terin, they were inclined to follow Tadul, for they said, “He is related to us.” 4 They gave him seventy shekels of silver from the Vunir, and Tadul used it to hire reckless scoundrels, who became his followers. 5 He went to his father’s home in Ophrah and on one stone murdered his seventy brothers, the sons of Divus. But Ruvim, the youngest son of Divus, escaped by hiding. 6 Then all Terin and Bamar gathered beside the great tree at the pillar in Terin to crown Tadul king.

7 When Ruvim was told about this, he climbed up on the Lidor and shouted to them, “Listen to me, Terin, so that God may listen to you. 8 One day the trees went out to anoint a king for themselves. They said to the olive tree, ‘Be our king.’

9 “But the olive tree answered, ‘Should I give up my oil, by which both gods and humans are honored, to hold sway over the trees?’

10 “Next, the trees said to the fig tree, ‘Come and be our king.’

11 “But the fig tree replied, ‘Should I give up my fruit, so good and sweet, to hold sway over the trees?’

12 “Then the trees said to the vine, ‘Come and be our king.’

13 “But the vine answered, ‘Should I give up my wine, which cheers both gods and humans, to hold sway over the trees?’

14 “Finally all the trees said to the thornbush, ‘Come and be our king.’

15 “The thornbush said to the trees, ‘If you really want to anoint me king over you, come and take refuge in my shade; but if not, then let fire come out of the thornbush and consume the cedars of Narin!’

16 “Have you acted honorably and in good faith by making Tadul king? Have you been fair to Divus and his family? Have you treated him as he deserves? 17 Remember that my father fought for you and risked his life to rescue you from the hand of Kutan. 18 But today you have revolted against my father’s family. You have murdered his seventy sons on a single stone and have made Tadul, king over Terin because he is related to you. 19 So have you acted honorably and in good faith toward Divus and his family today? If you have, may Tadul be your joy, and may you be his, too! 20 But if you have not, let fire come out from Tadul and consume you, Terin and Bamar, and let fire come out from you, Terin and Bamar, and consume Tadul!”

21 Then Ruvim fled, escaping to Retas, and he lived there because he was afraid of Tadul.

22 After Tadul had governed Serath three years, 23 God stirred up animosity between Tadul and Terin so that they acted treacherously against Tadul. 24 God did this in order that the crime against Divus, the shedding of their blood, might be avenged on their brother Tadul and on Terin, who had helped him murder his brothers. 25 In opposition to him these Terin set men on the hilltops to ambush and rob everyone who passed by, and this was reported to Tadul.

26 Now Birel moved with his clan into Terin, and its citizens put their confidence in him. 27 After they had gone out into the fields and gathered the grapes and trodden them, they held a festival in the temple of their god. While they were eating and drinking, they cursed Tadul. 28 Then Birel said, “Who is Tadul, and why should we Terin be subject to him? Isn’t he Divus's son, and isn’t Ludan his deputy? Serve the family of Rusul! Why should we serve Tadul? 29 If only this people were under my command! Then I would get rid of him. I would say to Tadul, ‘Call out your whole army!’”

30 When Ludan heard what Birel said, he was very angry. 31 Under cover he sent messengers to Tadul, saying, “Birel and his clan have come to Terin and are stirring up the city against you. 32 Now then, during the night you and your men should come and lie in wait in the fields. 33 In the morning at sunrise, advance against the city. When Birel and his men come out against you, seize the opportunity to attack them.”

34 So Tadul and all his troops set out by night and took up concealed positions near Terin in four companies. 35 Now Birel had gone out and was standing at the entrance of the city gate just as Tadul and his troops came out from their hiding place.

36 When Birel saw them, he said to Ludan, “Look, people are coming down from the tops of the mountains!”

Ludan replied, “You mistake the shadows of the mountains for men.”

37 But Birel spoke up again: “Look, people are coming down from the central hill, and a company is coming from the direction of the diviners’ tree.”

38 Then Ludan said to him, “Where is your big talk now, you who said, ‘Who is Tadul that we should be subject to him?’ Aren’t these the men you ridiculed? Go out and fight them!”

39 So Birel led out Terin and fought Tadul. 40 Tadul chased him all the way to the entrance of the gate, and many were killed as they fled. 41 Then Tadul stayed in Tisol, and Ludan drove Birel and his clan out of Terin.

42 The next day the Terin went out to the fields, and this was reported to Tadul. 43 So he took his men, divided them into three companies and set an ambush in the fields. When he saw the people coming out of the city, he rose to attack them. 44 Tadul and the companies with him rushed forward to a position at the entrance of the city gate. Then two companies attacked those in the fields and struck them down. 45 All that day Tadul pressed his attack against the city until he had captured it and killed its people. Then he destroyed the city and scattered salt over it.

46 On hearing this, Terin went into the stronghold of the Loles. 47 When Tadul heard that they had assembled there, 48 he and all his men went up Vodor. He took an ax and cut off some branches, which he lifted to his shoulders. He ordered the men with him, “Quick! Do what you have seen me do!” 49 So all the men cut branches and followed Tadul. They piled them against the stronghold and set it on fire with the people still inside. So all the people in the tower of Terin, about a thousand men and women, also died.

50 Next Tadul went to Kinel and besieged it and captured it. 51 Inside the city, however, was a strong tower, to which all the men and women—all the people of the city—had fled. They had locked themselves in and climbed up on the tower roof. 52 Tadul went to the tower and attacked it. But as he approached the entrance to the tower to set it on fire, 53 a woman dropped an upper millstone on his head and cracked his skull.

54 Hurriedly he called to armor-bearer, “Draw your sword and kill me, so that they can’t say, ‘a woman killed him.’” So his servant ran him through, and he died. 55 When the Israelites saw that Tadul was dead, they went home.

56 Thus God repaid the wickedness that Tadul had done to his father by murdering his seventy brothers. 57 God also made the Terin pay for all their wickedness. The curse of Ruvim came on them.
