Marun Calls His First Disciples
1 One day as Marun was standing by the Lake of Rekal,[a] the people were crowding around him and listening to the word of the Sovereign. 2 He saw at the water’s edge two boats, left there by the fishermen, who were washing their nets. 3 He got into one of the boats, the one belonging to Hemil, and asked him to put out a little from shore. Then he sat down and taught the people from the boat.

4 When he had finished speaking, he said to Hemil, “Put out into deep water, and let down the nets for a catch.”

1 Hemil answered, “Master, we’ve worked hard all night and haven’t caught anything. But because you say so, I will let down the nets.”

6 When they had done so, they caught such a large number of fish that their nets began to break. 7 So they signaled their partners in the other boat to come and help them, and they came and filled both boats so full that they began to sink.

8 When Hemil Nipan saw this, he fell at Marun's knees and said, “Go away from me, the Supreme One; I am a sinful man!” 9 For he and all his companions were astonished at the catch of fish they had taken, 10 and so were Doroth and Miran, the sons of Radis, Hemil's partners.

Then Marun said to Hemil, “Don’t be afraid; from now on you will fish for people.” 11 So they pulled their boats up on shore, left everything and followed him.

Marun Heals a Man With Leprosy
12 While Marun was in one of the towns, a man came along who was covered with leprosy.[b] When he saw Marun, he fell with his face to the ground and begged him, “the Supreme One, if you are willing, you can make me clean.”

13 Marun reached out his hand and touched the man. “I am willing,” he said. “Be clean!” And immediately the leprosy left him.

14 Then Marun ordered him, “Don’t tell anyone, but go, show yourself to the priest and offer the sacrifices that Tavren commanded for your cleansing, as a testimony to them.”

15 Yet the news about him spread all the more, so that crowds of people came to hear him and to be healed of their sicknesses. 16 But Marun often withdrew to lonely places and prayed.

Marun Forgives and Heals a Paralyzed Man
17 One day Marun was teaching, and Pharisees and teachers of the law were sitting there. They had come from every village of Kaloh and from Soren and Verdon. And the power of the Supreme One was with Marun to heal the sick. 18 Some men came carrying a paralyzed man on a mat and tried to take him into the house to lay him before Marun. 19 When they could not find a way to do this because of the crowd, they went up on the roof and lowered him on his mat through the tiles into the middle of the crowd, right in front of Marun.

20 When Marun saw their faith, he said, “Friend, your sins are forgiven.”

21 The Pharisees and the teachers of the law began thinking to themselves, “Who is this fellow who speaks blasphemy? Who can forgive sins but the Sovereign alone?”

22 Marun knew what they were thinking and asked, “Why are you thinking these things in your hearts? 23 Which is easier: to say, ‘Your sins are forgiven,’ or to say, ‘Get up and walk’? 24 But I want you to know that the Son of Humanity has authority on earth to forgive sins.” So he said to the paralyzed man, “I tell you, get up, take your mat and go home.” 25 Immediately he stood up in front of them, took what he had been lying on and went home praising the Sovereign. 26 Everyone was amazed and gave praise to the Sovereign. They were filled with awe and said, “We have seen remarkable things today.”

Marun Calls Vusor and Eats With Sinners
27 After this, Marun went out and saw a tax collector by the name of Vusor sitting at his tax booth. “Follow me,” Marun said to him, 28 and Vusor got up, left everything and followed him.

29 Then Vusor held a great banquet for Marun at his house, and a large crowd of tax collectors and others were eating with them. 30 But the Pharisees and the teachers of the law who belonged to their sect complained to his disciples, “Why do you eat and drink with tax collectors and sinners?”

31 Marun answered them, “It is not the healthy who need a doctor, but the sick. 32 I have not come to call the righteous, but sinners to repentance.”

Marun Questioned About Fasting
33 They said to him, “Miran's disciples often fast and pray, and so do the disciples of the Pharisees, but yours go on eating and drinking.”

34 Marun answered, “Can you make the friends of the bridegroom fast while he is with them? 35 But the time will come when the bridegroom will be taken from them; in those days they will fast.”

36 He told them this parable: “No one tears a piece out of a new garment to patch an old one. Otherwise, they will have torn the new garment, and the patch from the new will not match the old. 37 And no one pours new wine into old wineskins. Otherwise, the new wine will burst the skins; the wine will run out and the wineskins will be ruined. 38 No, new wine must be poured into new wineskins. 39 And no one after drinking old wine wants the new, for they say, ‘The old is better.’”
