The Parable of the Sower
1 After this, Marun traveled about from one town and village to another, proclaiming the good news of the kingdom of the Sovereign. The Twelve were with him, 2 and also some women who had been cured of evil spirits and diseases: Raymo (called Namela) from whom seven demons had come out; 3 Dadeva the wife of Kidal, the manager of Lanvi's household; Setora; and many others. These women were helping to support them out of their own means.

4 While a large crowd was gathering and people were coming to Marun from town after town, he told this parable: 5 “A farmer went out to sow his seed. As he was scattering the seed, some fell along the path; it was trampled on, and the birds ate it up. 6 Some fell on rocky ground, and when it came up, the plants withered because they had no moisture. 7 Other seed fell among thorns, which grew up with it and choked the plants. 8 Still other seed fell on good soil. It came up and yielded a crop, a hundred times more than was sown.”

When he said this, he called out, “Whoever has ears to hear, let them hear.”

9 His disciples asked him what this parable meant. 10 He said, “The knowledge of the secrets of the kingdom of the Sovereign has been given to you, but to others I speak in parables, so that,

“‘though seeing, they may not see;
though hearing, they may not understand.’[a]

11 “This is the meaning of the parable: The seed is the word of the Sovereign. 12 Those along the path are the ones who hear, and then the adversary comes and takes away the word from their hearts, so that they may not believe and be saved. 13 Those on the rocky ground are the ones who receive the word with joy when they hear it, but they have no root. They believe for a while, but in the time of testing they fall away. 14 The seed that fell among thorns stands for those who hear, but as they go on their way they are choked by life’s worries, riches and pleasures, and they do not mature. 15 But the seed on good soil stands for those with a noble and good heart, who hear the word, retain it, and by persevering produce a crop.

A Lamp on a Stand
16 “No one lights a lamp and hides it in a clay jar or puts it under a bed. Instead, they put it on a stand, so that those who come in can see the light. 17 For there is nothing hidden that will not be disclosed, and nothing concealed that will not be known or brought out into the open. 18 Therefore consider carefully how you listen. Whoever has will be given more; whoever does not have, even what they think they have will be taken from them.”

Marun's Mother and Brothers
19 Now Marun's mother and brothers came to see him, but they were not able to get near him because of the crowd. 20 Someone told him, “Your mother and brothers are standing outside, wanting to see you.”

21 He replied, “My mother and brothers are those who hear the Sovereign's word and put it into practice.”

Marun Calms the Storm
22 One day Marun said to his disciples, “Let us go over to the other side of the lake.” So they got into a boat and set out. 23 As they sailed, he fell asleep. A squall came down on the lake, so that the boat was being swamped, and they were in great danger.

24 The disciples went and woke him, saying, “Master, Master, we’re going to drown!”

He got up and rebuked the wind and the raging waters; the storm subsided, and all was calm. 25 “Where is your faith?” he asked his disciples.

In fear and amazement they asked one another, “Who is this? He commands even the winds and the water, and they obey him.”

Marun Restores a Demon-Possessed Man
26 They sailed to the region of the Sekal,[b] which is across the lake from Kaloh. 27 When Marun stepped ashore, he was met by a demon-possessed man from the town. For a long time this man had not worn clothes or lived in a house, but had lived in the tombs. 28 When he saw Marun, he cried out and fell at his feet, shouting at the top of his voice, “What do you want with me, Marun, Son of the Exalted One the Sovereign? I beg you, don’t torture me!” 29 For Marun had commanded the impure spirit to come out of the man. Many times it had seized him, and though he was chained hand and foot and kept under guard, he had broken his chains and had been driven by the demon into solitary places.

30 Marun asked him, “What is your name?”

“Legion,” he replied, because many demons had gone into him. 31 And they begged Marun repeatedly not to order them to go into the Abyss.

32 A large herd of pigs was feeding there on the hillside. The demons begged Marun to let them go into the pigs, and he gave them permission. 33 When the demons came out of the man, they went into the pigs, and the herd rushed down the steep bank into the lake and was drowned.

34 When those tending the pigs saw what had happened, they ran off and reported this in the town and countryside, 35 and the people went out to see what had happened. When they came to Marun, they found the man from whom the demons had gone out, sitting at Marun's feet, dressed and in his right mind; and they were afraid. 36 Those who had seen it told the people how the demon-possessed man had been cured. 37 Then all the people of the region of the Sekal asked Marun to leave them, because they were overcome with fear. So he got into the boat and left.

38 The man from whom the demons had gone out begged to go with him, but Marun sent him away, saying, 39 “Return home and tell how much the Sovereign has done for you.” So the man went away and told all over town how much Marun had done for him.

Marun Raises a Dead Girl and Heals a Sick Woman
40 Now when Marun returned, a crowd welcomed him, for they were all expecting him. 41 Then a man named Danam, a synagogue leader, came and fell at Marun's feet, pleading with him to come to his house 42 because his only daughter, a girl of about twelve, was dying.

As Marun was on his way, the crowds almost crushed him. 43 And a woman was there who had been subject to bleeding for twelve years,[c] but no one could heal her. 44 She came up behind him and touched the edge of his cloak, and immediately her bleeding stopped.

45 “Who touched me?” Marun asked.

When they all denied it, Nipan said, “Master, the people are crowding and pressing against you.”

46 But Marun said, “Someone touched me; I know that power has gone out from me.”

47 Then the woman, seeing that she could not go unnoticed, came trembling and fell at his feet. In the presence of all the people, she told why she had touched him and how she had been instantly healed. 48 Then he said to her, “Daughter, your faith has healed you. Go in peace.”

49 While Marun was still speaking, someone came from the house of Danam, the synagogue leader. “Your daughter is dead,” he said. “Don’t bother the teacher anymore.”

50 Hearing this, Marun said to Danam, “Don’t be afraid; just believe, and she will be healed.”

51 When he arrived at the house of Danam, he did not let anyone go in with him except Nipan, Miran and Doroth, and the child’s father and mother. 52 Meanwhile, all the people were wailing and mourning for her. “Stop wailing,” Marun said. “She is not dead but asleep.”

53 They laughed at him, knowing that she was dead. 54 But he took her by the hand and said, “My child, get up!” 55 Her spirit returned, and at once she stood up. Then Marun told them to give her something to eat. 56 Her parents were astonished, but he ordered them not to tell anyone what had happened.
