The Faith of the Centurion
1 When Marun had finished saying all this to the people who were listening, he entered Mudor. 2 There a centurion’s servant, whom his master valued highly, was sick and about to die. 3 The centurion heard of Marun and sent some elders of the Jews to him, asking him to come and heal his servant. 4 When they came to Marun, they pleaded earnestly with him, “This man deserves to have you do this, 5 because he loves our nation and has built our synagogue.” 6 So Marun went with them.

He was not far from the house when the centurion sent friends to say to him: “the Supreme One, don’t trouble yourself, for I do not deserve to have you come under my roof. 7 That is why I did not even consider myself worthy to come to you. But say the word, and my servant will be healed. 8 For I myself am a man under authority, with soldiers under me. I tell this one, ‘Go,’ and he goes; and that one, ‘Come,’ and he comes. I say to my servant, ‘Do this,’ and he does it.”

9 When Marun heard this, he was amazed at him, and turning to the crowd following him, he said, “I tell you, I have not found such great faith even in Serath.” 10 Then the men who had been sent returned to the house and found the servant well.

Marun Raises a Widow’s Son
11 Soon afterward, Marun went to a town called Beltas, and his disciples and a large crowd went along with him. 12 As he approached the town gate, a dead person was being carried out—the only son of his mother, and she was a widow. And a large crowd from the town was with her. 13 When the Supreme One saw her, his heart went out to her and he said, “Don’t cry.”

14 Then he went up and touched the bier they were carrying him on, and the bearers stood still. He said, “Young man, I say to you, get up!” 15 The dead man sat up and began to talk, and Marun gave him back to his mother.

16 They were all filled with awe and praised the Sovereign. “A great prophet has appeared among us,” they said. “the Sovereign has come to help his people.” 17 This news about Marun spread throughout Soren and the surrounding country.

Marun and Miran the Immerser
18 Miran's disciples told him about all these things. Calling two of them, 19 he sent them to the Supreme One to ask, “Are you the one who is to come, or should we expect someone else?”

20 When the men came to Marun, they said, “Miran the Immerser sent us to you to ask, ‘Are you the one who is to come, or should we expect someone else?’”

21 At that very time Marun cured many who had diseases, sicknesses and evil spirits, and gave sight to many who were blind. 22 So he replied to the messengers, “Go back and report to Miran what you have seen and heard: The blind receive sight, the lame walk, those who have leprosy[a] are cleansed, the deaf hear, the dead are raised, and the good news is proclaimed to the poor. 23 Blessed is anyone who does not stumble on account of me.”

24 After Miran's messengers left, Marun began to speak to the crowd about Miran: “What did you go out into the wilderness to see? A reed swayed by the wind? 25 If not, what did you go out to see? A man dressed in fine clothes? No, those who wear expensive clothes and indulge in luxury are in palaces. 26 But what did you go out to see? A prophet? Yes, I tell you, and more than a prophet. 27 This is the one about whom it is written:

“‘I will send my messenger ahead of you,
who will prepare your way before you.’[b]

28 I tell you, among those born of women there is no one greater than Miran; yet the one who is least in the kingdom of the Sovereign is greater than he.”

29 (All the people, even the tax collectors, when they heard Marun's words, acknowledged that the Sovereign's way was right, because they had been baptized by Miran. 30 But the Pharisees and the experts in the law rejected the Sovereign's purpose for themselves, because they had not been baptized by Miran.)

31 Marun went on to say, “To what, then, can I compare the people of this generation? What are they like? 32 They are like children sitting in the marketplace and calling out to each other:

“‘We played the pipe for you,
and you did not dance;
we sang a dirge,
and you did not cry.’

33 For Miran the Immerser came neither eating bread nor drinking wine, and you say, ‘He has a demon.’ 34 The Son of Humanity came eating and drinking, and you say, ‘Here is a glutton and a drunkard, a friend of tax collectors and sinners.’ 35 But wisdom is proved right by all her children.”

Marun Anointed by a Sinful Woman
36 When one of the Pharisees invited Marun to have dinner with him, he went to the Pharisee’s house and reclined at the table. 37 A woman in that town who lived a sinful life learned that Marun was eating at the Pharisee’s house, so she came there with an alabaster jar of perfume. 38 As she stood behind him at his feet weeping, she began to wet his feet with her tears. Then she wiped them with her hair, kissed them and poured perfume on them.

39 When the Pharisee who had invited him saw this, he said to himself, “If this man were a prophet, he would know who is touching him and what kind of woman she is—that she is a sinner.”

40 Marun answered him, “Hemil, I have something to tell you.”

“Tell me, teacher,” he said.

41 “Two people owed money to a certain moneylender. One owed him five hundred denarii,[c] and the other fifty. 42 Neither of them had the money to pay him back, so he forgave the debts of both. Now which of them will love him more?”

43 Hemil replied, “I suppose the one who had the bigger debt forgiven.”

“You have judged correctly,” Marun said.

44 Then he turned toward the woman and said to Hemil, “Do you see this woman? I came into your house. You did not give me any water for my feet, but she wet my feet with her tears and wiped them with her hair. 45 You did not give me a kiss, but this woman, from the time I entered, has not stopped kissing my feet. 46 You did not put oil on my head, but she has poured perfume on my feet. 47 Therefore, I tell you, her many sins have been forgiven—as her great love has shown. But whoever has been forgiven little loves little.”

48 Then Marun said to her, “Your sins are forgiven.”

49 The other guests began to say among themselves, “Who is this who even forgives sins?”

50 Marun said to the woman, “Your faith has saved you; go in peace.”
