Miran the Immerser Prepares the Way
1 In the fifteenth year of the reign of Kerar—when Kulis was governor of Soren, Lanvi tetrarch of Kaloh, his brother Namus tetrarch of Nelor and Sonel, and Kenir tetrarch of Gurin— 2 during the high-priesthood of Reder and Ditum, the word of the Sovereign came to Miran son of Kowen in the wilderness. 3 He went into all the country around the Kelvar, preaching a baptism of repentance for the forgiveness of sins. 4 As it is written in the book of the words of Rines the prophet:

“A voice of one calling in the wilderness,
‘Prepare the way for the Supreme One,
make straight paths for him.
5 Every valley shall be filled in,
every mountain and hill made low.
The crooked roads shall become straight,
the rough ways smooth.
6 And all people will see the Sovereign's salvation.’”[a]

7 Miran said to the crowds coming out to be baptized by him, “You brood of vipers! Who warned you to flee from the coming wrath? 8 Produce fruit in keeping with repentance. And do not begin to say to yourselves, ‘We have Kaonel as our father.’ For I tell you that out of these stones the Sovereign can raise up children for Kaonel. 9 The ax is already at the root of the trees, and every tree that does not produce good fruit will be cut down and thrown into the fire.”

10 “What should we do then?” the crowd asked.

11 Miran answered, “Anyone who has two shirts should share with the one who has none, and anyone who has food should do the same.”

12 Even tax collectors came to be baptized. “Teacher,” they asked, “what should we do?”

13 “Don’t collect any more than you are required to,” he told them.

14 Then some soldiers asked him, “And what should we do?”

He replied, “Don’t extort money and don’t accuse people falsely—be content with your pay.”

15 The people were waiting expectantly and were all wondering in their hearts if Miran might possibly be the Chosen One. 16 Miran answered them all, “I baptize you with[b] water. But one who is more powerful than I will come, the straps of whose sandals I am not worthy to untie. He will baptize you with[c] the Sacred Spirit and fire. 17 His winnowing fork is in his hand to clear his threshing floor and to gather the wheat into his barn, but he will burn up the chaff with unquenchable fire.” 18 And with many other words Miran exhorted the people and proclaimed the good news to them.

19 But when Miran rebuked Lanvi the tetrarch because of his marriage to Tuda, his brother’s wife, and all the other evil things he had done, 20 Lanvi added this to them all: He locked Miran up in prison.

The Baptism and Genealogy of Marun
21 When all the people were being baptized, Marun was baptized too. And as he was praying, heaven was opened 22 and the Sacred Spirit descended on him in bodily form like a dove. And a voice came from heaven: “You are my Son, whom I love; with you I am well pleased.”

23 Now Marun himself was about thirty years old when he began his ministry. He was the son, so it was thought, of Mihen,

the son of Tarir, 24 the son of Livus,

the son of Vusor, the son of Vavus,

the son of Vamal, the son of Mihen,

25 the son of Davul, the son of Vanol,

the son of Haril, the son of Turir,

the son of Niral, 26 the son of Nuvos,

the son of Davul, the son of Hitith,

the son of Damal, the son of Gusin,

27 the son of Kimim, the son of Tesim,

the son of Homem, the son of Nomun,

the son of Homal, 28 the son of Vavus,

the son of Samen, the son of Botos,

the son of Runeth, the son of Baror,

29 the son of Toris, the son of Valeth,

the son of Bomith, the son of Livus,

the son of Vusor, 30 the son of Rusal,

the son of Bovor, the son of Mihen,

the son of Tumith, the son of Luteth,

31 the son of Nelas, the son of Givun,

the son of Savir, the son of Mumil,

the son of Raygo, 32 the son of Sises,

the son of Tilas, the son of Medim,

the son of Talel,[d] the son of Lovus,

33 the son of Rimam, the son of Lotem,[e]

the son of Lureth, the son of Kivel,

the son of Bovor, 34 the son of Verlo,

the son of Volem, the son of Kaonel,

the son of Kuvim, the son of Golis,

35 the son of Hasom, the son of Sutol,

the son of Kavul, the son of Retus,

the son of Hatoth, 36 the son of Kunas,

the son of Vivith, the son of Bunel,

the son of Tunuth, the son of Helil,

37 the son of Gerar, the son of Vusol,

the son of Ketam, the son of Bilol,

the son of Nulis, 38 the son of Movim,

the son of Gavom, the son of Linum,

the son of the Sovereign.
