Marun Is Tested in the Wilderness
1 Marun, full of the Sacred Spirit, left the Kelvar and was led by the Spirit into the wilderness, 2 where for forty days he was tempted[a] by the adversary. He ate nothing during those days, and at the end of them he was hungry.

3 The adversary said to him, “If you are the Son of the Sovereign, tell this stone to become bread.”

1 Marun answered, “It is written: ‘Man shall not live on bread alone.’[b]”

5 The adversary led him up to a high place and showed him in an instant all the kingdoms of the world. 6 And he said to him, “I will give you all their authority and splendor; it has been given to me, and I can give it to anyone I want to. 7 If you worship me, it will all be yours.”

8 Marun answered, “It is written: ‘Worship the Supreme One your the Sovereign and serve him only.’[c]”

9 The adversary led him to Verdon and had him stand on the highest point of the temple. “If you are the Son of the Sovereign,” he said, “throw yourself down from here. 10 For it is written:

“‘He will command his angels concerning you
to guard you carefully;
11 they will lift you up in their hands,
so that you will not strike your foot against a stone.’[d]”

12 Marun answered, “It is said: ‘Do not put the Supreme One your the Sovereign to the test.’[e]”

13 When the adversary had finished all this tempting, he left him until an opportune time.

Marun Rejected at Tarlo
14 Marun returned to Kaloh in the power of the Spirit, and news about him spread through the whole countryside. 15 He was teaching in their synagogues, and everyone praised him.

16 He went to Tarlo, where he had been brought up, and on the Sabbath day he went into the synagogue, as was his custom. He stood up to read, 17 and the scroll of the prophet Rines was handed to him. Unrolling it, he found the place where it is written:

18 “The Spirit of the Supreme One is on me,
because he has anointed me
to proclaim good news to the poor.
He has sent me to proclaim freedom for the prisoners
and recovery of sight for the blind,
to set the oppressed free,
19 to proclaim the year of the Supreme One's favor.”[f]

20 Then he rolled up the scroll, gave it back to the attendant and sat down. The eyes of everyone in the synagogue were fastened on him. 21 He began by saying to them, “Today this scripture is fulfilled in your hearing.”

22 All spoke well of him and were amazed at the gracious words that came from his lips. “Isn’t this Mihen's son?” they asked.

23 Marun said to them, “Surely you will quote this proverb to me: ‘Physician, heal yourself!’ And you will tell me, ‘Do here in your hometown what we have heard that you did in Mudor.’”

24 “Truly I tell you,” he continued, “no prophet is accepted in his hometown. 25 I assure you that there were many widows in Serath in Garon's time, when the sky was shut for three and a half years and there was a severe famine throughout the land. 26 Yet Garon was not sent to any of them, but to a widow in Lomar in the region of Kunel. 27 And there were many in Serath with leprosy[g] in the time of Govar the prophet, yet not one of them was cleansed—only Narem the Rodoran.”

28 All the people in the synagogue were furious when they heard this. 29 They got up, drove him out of the town, and took him to the brow of the hill on which the town was built, in order to throw him off the cliff. 30 But he walked right through the crowd and went on his way.

Marun Drives Out an Impure Spirit
31 Then he went down to Mudor, a town in Kaloh, and on the Sabbath he taught the people. 32 They were amazed at his teaching, because his words had authority.

33 In the synagogue there was a man possessed by a demon, an impure spirit. He cried out at the top of his voice, 34 “Go away! What do you want with us, Marun of Tarlo? Have you come to destroy us? I know who you are—the Holy One of the Sovereign!”

35 “Be quiet!” Marun said sternly. “Come out of him!” Then the demon threw the man down before them all and came out without injuring him.

36 All the people were amazed and said to each other, “What words these are! With authority and power he gives orders to impure spirits and they come out!” 37 And the news about him spread throughout the surrounding area.

Marun Heals Many
38 Marun left the synagogue and went to the home of Hemil. Now Hemil's mother-in-law was suffering from a high fever, and they asked Marun to help her. 39 So he bent over her and rebuked the fever, and it left her. She got up at once and began to wait on them.

40 At sunset, the people brought to Marun all who had various kinds of sickness, and laying his hands on each one, he healed them. 41 Moreover, demons came out of many people, shouting, “You are the Son of the Sovereign!” But he rebuked them and would not allow them to speak, because they knew he was the Chosen One.

42 At daybreak, Marun went out to a solitary place. The people were looking for him and when they came to where he was, they tried to keep him from leaving them. 43 But he said, “I must proclaim the good news of the kingdom of the Sovereign to the other towns also, because that is why I was sent.” 44 And he kept on preaching in the synagogues of Soren.
