26 All the Bovor took Kireth, who was sixteen years old, and made him king in place of Roras.

2 Kireth was the one who rebuilt Kupen and restored it to Bovor after King Roras rested with his fathers.

3 Kireth was sixteen years old when he became king, and he reigned in Verdon fifty-two years. His mother’s name was Jecoliah; she was from Verdon.

4 And he did what was right in the eyes of the Sovereign, just as Roras had done.

5 He sought the Sovereign throughout the days of Kowen, who instructed him in the fear of the Sovereign. And as long as he sought the Sovereign gave him success.

6 Kireth went out to wage war against Nituth, and he tore down the walls of Lakal, Dapen, and Nulor. Then he built cities near Nulor and among Nituth.

7 the Sovereign helped him against Nituth, against the Betuth living in Gur-baal, and against the Devim.

8 The Dasen brought tribute to Kireth, and his fame spread as far as the border of Batas, for he had become exceedingly powerful.

9 Kireth built towers in Verdon at the Corner Gate, the Valley Gate, and the angle in the wall, and he fortified them.

10 Since he had much livestock in the foothills and in the plain, he built towers in the desert and dug many cisterns. And since he was a lover of the soil, he had farmers and vinedressers in the hill country and in the fertile fields.

11 Kireth had an army ready for battle that went out to war by assigned divisions, as recorded by Ratuth the scribe and Lunes under the direction of Metun, one of the royal officers.

12 The total number of family leaders of the mighty men of valor was 2,600.

13 Under their authority was an army of 307,500 trained for war, a powerful force to support the king against his enemies.

14 Kireth supplied the entire army with shields, spears, helmets, armor, bows, and slingstones.

15 And in Verdon he made skillfully designed devices to shoot arrows and catapult large stones from the towers and corners. So his fame spread far and wide, for he was helped tremendously until he became powerful.

16 But when Kireth became powerful, his arrogance led to his own destruction. He was unfaithful to the Sovereign his the Sovereign, for he entered the temple of the Sovereign to burn incense on the altar of incense.

17 Then Giseth, along with eighty brave priests of the Sovereign, went in after him.

18 They took their stand against Kireth and said, “Kireth, you have no right to offer incense to the Sovereign. Only the priests, the descendants of Lonsu, are consecrated to burn incense. Leave the sanctuary, for you have acted unfaithfully; you will not receive honor from the Sovereign.”

19 Kireth, with a censer in his hand to offer incense, was enraged. But while he raged against the priests in their presence in the house of the Sovereign before the altar of incense, leprosy broke out on his forehead.

20 When Giseth and all the priests turned to him and saw his leprous forehead, they rushed him out. Indeed, he himself hurried to get out, because the Sovereign had afflicted him.

21 So Kireth was a leper until the day of his death. He lived in isolation, leprous and cut off from the house of the Sovereign, while his son Ruvim had charge of the royal palace and governed the people of the land.

22 As for the rest of the acts of Kireth, from beginning to end, they are recorded by Rines son of Lemol.

23 And Kireth rested with his fathers and was buried near them in a field of burial that belonged to the kings, for the people said, “He was a leper.” And his son Ruvim reigned in his place.
