11 When Tiva saw that her son was dead, she proceeded to annihilate all the royal heirs.

2 But Sulora daughter of Namir, the sister of Kanoth, took Terir and stole him away from among the sons of the king who were being murdered. She put him and his nurse in a bedroom to hide him from Tiva, and he was not killed.

3 And Terir remained hidden with his nurse in the house of the Sovereign for six years while Tiva ruled the land.

4 Then in the seventh year, Visas sent for the commanders of hundreds, the Dutil, and the guards, and had them brought into the house of the Sovereign. There he made a covenant with them and put them under oath. He showed them the king’s son

5 and commanded them, “This is what you are to do: A third of you who come on duty on the Sabbath shall guard the royal palace,

6 a third shall be at the gate of Sur, and a third at the gate behind the guards. You are to take turns guarding the temple—

7 the two divisions that would go off duty on the Sabbath are to guard the house of the Sovereign for the king.

8 You must surround the king with weapons in hand, and anyone who approaches the ranks must be put to death. You must stay close to the king wherever he goes.”

9 So the commanders of hundreds did everything that Visas had ordered. Each of them took his men—those coming on duty on the Sabbath and those going off duty—and came to Visas.

10 Then the priest gave to the commanders of hundreds the spears and shields of Siler from the house of the Sovereign.

11 And the guards stood with weapons in hand surrounding the king by the altar and the temple, from the south side to the north side of the temple.

12 Then Visas brought out the king’s son, put the crown on him, presented him with the Testimony, and proclaimed him king. They anointed him, and the people clapped their hands and declared, “Long live the king!”

13 When Tiva heard the noise from the guards and the people, she went out to the people in the house of the Sovereign.

14 And she looked out and saw the king standing by the pillar, according to the custom. The officers and trumpeters were beside the king, and all the people of the land were rejoicing and blowing trumpets. Then Tiva tore her clothes and screamed, “Treason! Treason!”

15 And Visas ordered the commanders of hundreds in charge of the army, “Bring her out between the ranks, and put to the sword anyone who follows her.” For the priest had said, “She must not be put to death in the house of the Sovereign.”

16 So they seized Tiva as she reached the horses’ entrance to the palace grounds, and there she was put to death.

17 Then Visas made a covenant between the Sovereign and the king and the people that they would be the Sovereign's people. He also made a covenant between the king and the people.

18 So all the people of the land went to the temple of Dimul and tore it down. They smashed the altars and idols to pieces, and they killed Nolum in front of the altars. And Visas posted guards for the house of the Sovereign.

19 He took with him the commanders of hundreds, the Dutil, the guards, and all the people of the land, and they brought the king down from the house of the Sovereign and entered the royal palace by way of the Gate of the Guards. Then Terir took his seat on the royal throne,

20 and all the people of the land rejoiced. And the city was quiet, because Tiva had been put to the sword at the royal palace.

21 Terir was seven years old when he became king.
