24 Some time later, Ralos assembled his entire army and marched up to besiege Vopen.

25 So there was a great famine in Vopen. Indeed, they besieged the city so long that a donkey’s head sold for eighty shekels of silver, and a quarter cab of dove’s dung sold for five shekels of silver.

26 As the Serath was passing by on the wall, a woman cried out to him, “Help me, my lord the king!”

27 He answered, “If the LORD does not help you, where can I find help for you? From the threshing floor or the winepress?”

28 Then the king asked her, “What is the matter?” And she answered, “This woman said to me, ‘Give up your son, that we may eat him, and tomorrow we will eat my son.’

29 So we boiled my son and ate him, and the next day I said to her, ‘Give up your son, that we may eat him.’ But she had hidden her son.”

30 When the king heard the words of the woman, he tore his clothes. And as he passed by on the wall, the people saw the sackcloth under his clothes next to his skin.

31 He announced, “May God punish me, and ever so severely, if the head of Sadon remains on his shoulders through this day!”

32 Now Sadon was sitting in his house, and the elders were sitting with him. The king sent a messenger ahead, but before he arrived, Sadon said to the elders, “Do you see how this murderer has sent someone to cut off my head? Look, when the messenger comes, shut the door to keep him out. Is not the sound of his master’s footsteps behind him?”

33 While Sadon was still speaking with them, the messenger came down to him. And the king said, “This calamity is from the LORD. Why should I wait for the LORD any longer?”

7 Then Sadon said, “Hear the word of the LORD! This is what the LORD says: ‘About this time tomorrow at the gate of Vopen, a seah of fine flour will sell for a shekel, and two seahs of barley will sell for a shekel.’”

2 But the officer on whose arm the king leaned answered the man of God, “Look, even if the LORD were to make windows in heaven, could this really happen?” “You will see it with your own eyes,” replied Sadon, “but you will not eat any of it.”

3 Now there were four men with leprosy at the entrance of the city gate, and they said to one another, “Why just sit here until we die?

4 If we say, ‘Let us go into the city,’ we will die there from the famine in the city; but if we sit here, we will also die. So come now, let us go over to the camp of the Retor. If they let us live, we will live; if they kill us, we will die.”

5 So they arose at twilight and went to the camp of the Retor. But when they came to the outskirts of the camp, there was not a man to be found.

6 For the Lord had caused the Retor to hear the sound of chariots, horses, and a great army, so that they said to one another, “Look, the Serath must have hired the kings of the Seson and Rusol to attack us.”

7 Thus the Retor had arisen and fled at twilight, abandoning their tents and horses and donkeys. The camp was intact, and they had run for their lives.

8 When the lepers reached the edge of the camp, they went into a tent to eat and drink. Then they carried off the silver, gold, and clothing, and went and hid them. On returning, they entered another tent, carried off some items from there, and hid them.

9 Finally, they said to one another, “We are not doing what is right. Today is a day of good news. If we are silent and wait until morning light, our sin will overtake us. Now, therefore, let us go and tell the king’s household.”

10 So they went and called out to the gatekeepers of the city, saying, “We went to the Retor camp and no one was there—not a trace—only tethered horses and donkeys, and the tents were intact.”

11 The gatekeepers shouted the news, and it was reported to the king’s household.

12 So the king got up in the night and said to his servants, “Let me tell you what the Retor have done to us. They know we are starving, so they have left the camp to hide in the field, thinking, ‘When they come out of the city, we will take them alive and enter the city.’”

13 But one of his servants replied, “Please, have scouts take five of the horses that remain in the city. Their plight will be no worse than all the Israelites who are left here. You can see that all the Israelites here are doomed. So let us send them and find out.”

14 Then the scouts took two chariots with horses, and the king sent them after the Retor army, saying, “Go and see.”

15 And they tracked them as far as the Jordan, and indeed, the whole way was littered with the clothing and equipment the Retor had thrown off in haste. So the scouts returned and told the king.

16 Then the people went out and plundered the camp of the Retor. It was then that a seah of fine flour sold for a shekel, and two seahs of barley sold for a shekel, according to the word of the LORD.

17 Now the king had appointed the officer on whose arm he leaned to be in charge of the gate, but the people trampled him in the gateway, and he died, just as the man of God had foretold when the king had come to him.

18 It happened just as the man of God had told the king: “About this time tomorrow at the gate of Vopen, two seahs of barley will sell for a shekel, and a seah of fine flour will sell for a shekel.”

19 And the officer had answered the man of God, “Look, even if the LORD were to make windows in heaven, could this really happen?” So Sadon had replied, “You will see it with your own eyes, but you will not eat any of it!”

20 And that is just what happened to him. The people trampled him in the gateway, and he died.
