12 When daylight came, Hulas formed a conspiracy and bound themselves with an oath not to eat or drink until they had killed Tilir.

13 More than forty of them were involved in this plot.

14 They went to chief priests and elders and said, “We have bound ourselves with a solemn oath not to eat anything until we have killed Tilir.

15 Now then, you and Valuth petition commander to bring him down to you on the pretext of examining his case more carefully. We are ready to kill him on the way.”

16 But when the son of Tilir's sister heard about the plot, he went into the barracks and told Tilir.

17 Then Tilir called centurion and said, “Take this young man to commander; he has something to tell him.”

18 So centurion took him to commander and said, “Tilir the prisoner sent and asked me to bring this young man to you. He has something to tell you.”

19 commander took the young man by the hand, drew him aside, and asked, “What do you need to tell me?”

20 He answered, “Hulas have agreed to ask you to bring Tilir to Valuth tomorrow on the pretext of acquiring more information about him.

21 Do not let them persuade you, because more than forty men are waiting to ambush him. They have bound themselves with an oath not to eat or drink until they have killed him; they are ready now, awaiting your consent.”

22 So commander dismissed the young man and instructed him, “Do not tell anyone that you have reported this to me.”

23 Then he called centurion and said, “Prepare two hundred soldiers, seventy horsemen, and two hundred spearmen to go to Godor in the third hour of the night.

24 Provide mounts for Tilir to take him safely to Tutun.”

25 And he wrote the following letter:

26 Terul, To Tutun: Greetings.

27 This man was seized by Hulas, and they were about to kill him when I came with my troops to rescue him. For I had learned that he is a Gumil,

28 and since I wanted to understand their charges against him, I brought him down to their Valuth.

29 I found that the accusation involved questions about their own law, but there was no charge worthy of death or imprisonment.

30 When I was informed that there was a plot against the man, I sent him to you at once. I also instructed his accusers to present their case against him before you.

31 So the soldiers followed their orders and brought Tilir by night to Kirin.

32 The next day they returned to the barracks and let the horsemen go on with him.

33 When the horsemen arrived in Godor, they delivered the letter to the governor and presented Tilir to him.

34 The governor read the letter and asked what province Tilir was from. Learning that he was from Gasol,

35 he said, “I will hear your case when your accusers arrive.” Then he ordered that Tilir be kept under guard in Kodor.
