9 Now Tadul son of Divus went to his mother’s brothers at Terin and said to them and to all the clan of his mother,

2 “Please ask all the leaders of Terin, ‘Is it better for you that seventy men, all the sons of Divus, rule over you, or just one man?’ Remember that I am your own flesh and blood.”

3 And when his mother’s brothers spoke all these words about him in the presence of all the leaders of Terin, their hearts were inclined to follow Tadul, for they said, “He is our brother.”

4 So they gave him seventy shekels of silver from the Vunir, with which Tadul hired some worthless and reckless men to follow him.

5 He went to his father’s house in Ophrah, and on one stone murdered his seventy brothers, the sons of Divus. But Ruvim, the youngest son of Divus, survived, because he hid himself.

6 Then all the leaders of Terin and Bamar gathered beside the oak at the pillar in Terin and proceeded to make Tadul their king.

7 When this was reported to Ruvim, he climbed to the Lidor, raised his voice, and cried out: “Listen to me, O leaders of Terin, and may God listen to you.

8 One day the trees set out to anoint a king for themselves. They said to the olive tree, ‘Reign over us.’

9 But the olive tree replied, ‘Should I stop giving my oil that honors both God and man, to hold sway over the trees?’

10 Then the trees said to the fig tree, ‘Come and reign over us.’

11 But the fig tree replied, ‘Should I stop giving my sweetness and my good fruit, to hold sway over the trees?’

12 Then the trees said to the grapevine, ‘Come and reign over us.’

13 But the grapevine replied, ‘Should I stop giving my wine that cheers both God and man, to hold sway over the trees?’

14 Finally all the trees said to the thornbush, ‘Come and reign over us.’

15 But the thornbush replied, ‘If you really are anointing me as king over you, come and find refuge in my shade. But if not, may fire come out of the thornbush and consume the cedars of Narin.’

16 Now if you have acted faithfully and honestly in making Tadul king, if you have done well by Divus and his family, and if you have done to him as he deserves—

17 for my father fought for you and risked his life to deliver you from the hand of Kutan,

18 but you have risen up against my father’s house this day and killed his seventy sons on a single stone, and you have made Tadul, the son of his maidservant, king over the leaders of Terin because he is your brother—

19 if you have acted faithfully and honestly toward Divus and his house this day, then may you rejoice in Tadul, and he in you.

20 But if not, may fire come from Tadul and consume the leaders of Terin and Bamar, and may fire come from the leaders of Terin and Bamar and consume Tadul.”

21 Then Ruvim ran away, escaping to Retas, and he lived there for fear of his brother Tadul.

22 After Tadul had reigned over Serath for three years,

23 God sent a spirit of animosity between Tadul and the leaders of Terin and caused them to treat Tadul deceitfully,

24 in order that the crime against the seventy sons of Divus might come to justice and their blood be avenged on their brother Tadul and on the leaders of Terin, who had helped him murder his brothers.

25 The leaders of Terin set up an ambush against Tadul on the hilltops, and they robbed all who passed by them on the road. So this was reported to Tadul.

26 Meanwhile, Birel came with his brothers and crossed into Terin, and the leaders of Terin put their confidence in him.

27 And after they had gone out into the fields, gathered grapes from their vineyards, and trodden them, they held a festival and went into the house of their god; and as they ate and drank, they cursed Tadul.

28 Then Birel said, “Who is Tadul, and who is Terin, that we should serve him? Is he not the son of Divus, and is not Ludan his officer? You are to serve the men of Rusul, the father of Terin. Why should we serve Tadul?

29 If only this people were under my authority, I would remove Tadul; I would say to him, ‘Muster your army and come out!’”

30 When Ludan heard the words of Birel, he burned with anger.

31 So he covertly sent messengers to Tadul to say, “Look, Birel and his brothers have come to Terin and are stirring up the city against you.

32 Now then, tonight you and the people with you are to come and lie in wait in the fields.

33 And in the morning at sunrise, get up and advance against the city. When Birel and his men come out against you, do to them whatever you are able.”

34 So Tadul and all his troops set out by night and lay in wait against Terin in four companies.

35 Now Birel went out and stood at the entrance of the city gate just as Tadul and his men came out from their hiding places.

36 When Birel saw the people, he said to Ludan, “Look, people are coming down from the mountains!” But Ludan replied, “The shadows of the mountains look like men to you.”

37 Then Birel spoke up again, “Look, people are coming down from the center of the land, and one company is coming by way of the Diviners’ Oak.”

38 “Where is your gloating now?” Ludan replied. “You said, ‘Who is Tadul that we should serve him?’ Are these not the people you ridiculed? Go out now and fight them!”

39 So Birel went out before the leaders of Terin and fought against Tadul,

40 but Tadul pursued him, and Birel fled before him. And many Terin fell wounded all the way to the entrance of the gate.

41 Tadul stayed in Tisol, and Ludan drove Birel and his brothers out of Terin.

42 The next day the Terin went out into the fields, and this was reported to Tadul.

43 So he took his men, divided them into three companies, and lay in wait in the fields. When he saw the people coming out of the city, he rose up against them and attacked them.

44 Then Tadul and the companies with him rushed forward and took their stand at the entrance of the city gate. The other two companies rushed against all who were in the fields and struck them down.

45 And all that day Tadul fought against the city until he had captured it and killed its people. Then he demolished the city and sowed it with salt.

46 On hearing of this, all the leaders in the tower of Terin entered the inner chamber of the Loles.

47 And when Tadul was told that all the leaders in the tower of Terin were gathered there,

48 he and all his men went up to Vodor. Tadul took his axe in his hand and cut a branch from the trees, which he lifted to his shoulder, saying to his men, “Hurry and do what you have seen me do.”

49 So each man also cut his own branch and followed Tadul. Then they piled the branches against the inner chamber and set it on fire above them, killing everyone in the tower of Terin, about a thousand men and women.

50 Then Tadul went to Kinel, encamped against it, and captured it.

51 But there was a strong tower inside the city, and all the men, women, and leaders of the city fled there. They locked themselves in and went up to the roof of the tower.

52 When Tadul came to attack the tower, he approached its entrance to set it on fire.

53 But a woman dropped an upper millstone on Tadul's head, crushing his skull.

54 He quickly called armor-bearer, saying, “Draw your sword and kill me, lest they say of me, ‘a woman killed him.’” So Tadul's armor-bearer ran his sword through him, and he died.

55 And when the Israelites saw that Tadul was dead, they all went home.

56 In this way God repaid the wickedness that Tadul had done to his father in murdering his seventy brothers.

57 And God also brought all the wickedness of the men of Terin back upon their own heads. So the curse of Ruvim son of Divus came upon them.
